---
title: June 2025 Deployment Notice - Microsoft Trusted Root Program 
description: This document provides details about the changes made in June 2025 to the root store.
ms.date: 6/21/2025
ms.service: security
author: tahmad2
ms.author: tahminaahmad
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# June 2025 Deployment Notice - Microsoft Trusted Root Program 

On Thursday, June 26, 2025, Microsoft released an update to the Microsoft Trusted Root Certificate Program.

This release will **add** the following roots (CA \ Root Certificate \ SHA-1 Thumbprint):

1. Govt of Spain FMNT	// AC RAIZ FNMT-RCM G2	// A4D6B770E765A9BF17ECD7B5E03B852D612FA71D
2. CyberTrust Japan	// SecureSign Root CA 16	// D17917EC45E2A0CAD774513010A4C65CAAB33C49


**Certificate Transparency Log Monitor (CTLM) policy** <br />
The Certificate Transparency Log Monitor (CTLM) policy is now included in the monthly Windows CTL. It's a list of publicly trusted logging servers that is for validating certificate transparency on Windows. The list of logging servers is expected to change over time as they're retired or replaced, and this list reflects the CT logging servers that Microsoft trusts. In the upcoming Windows release, users are able to opt in to certificate transparency validation, which checks for the presence of two Signed Certificate Timestamps (SCTs) from different logging servers in the CTLM. This functionality is currently being tested with event logging only to ensure it's reliable before individual applications can opt in to enforcement.

>[!NOTE]
> * As part of this release, Microsoft also updated the Untrusted CTL time stamp and sequence number. No changes were made to the contents of the Untrusted CTL but this update causes your system to download/refresh the Untrusted CTL. This update is normal and sometimes occurs when the Trusted Root CTL is updated.
> * The update package is available for download and testing at: <https://aka.ms/CTLDownload>
> * Signatures on the Certificate Trust Lists (CTLs) for the Microsoft Trusted Root Program changed from dual-signed (SHA-1/SHA-2) to SHA-2 only. No customer action required. For more information, please visit: <https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4472027/2019-sha-2-code-signing-support-requirement-for-windows-and-wsus>
